in this lesson we're going to explore
the benefits and usage of resource
groups
when i create any resource a virtual
machine a storage account an app service
you name it
it's going to live in a particular
resource group
everything has to live in one
and only one
resource group
now a resource group has its own
metadata
it lives in a particular region but when
i create that resource group and pick
that region that's really just hey where
is it storing the metadata i certain
attributes about the resource group
what i actually put inside the resource
group well i can have things from many
different regions in the same resource
group
so i can think about what i can have in
here
is from
multiple regions
and i can have multiple
resource
types
so i can mix different things
into the same resource group
if i go and look for a second at an
example so right here
i have a whole bunch of different
resource groups in my subscription
if i just was to go and pick one so i'll
go down here
and i'm going to look at my demo vm
resource group
and what we can see very quickly is i
have a number of different types of
resource in the resource group we can
see i have a virtual machine
i have a network security group i have a
network interface i have a disk i have a
public ip address
so i have a range of different resources
in that resource group now just so
happens mine are from the same region
but that's certainly not a requirement
at all i can completely mix and have
different things within here
now when i think about my resource group
i can't nest them
i can have multiple resource groups so
within my certain subscription i might
have the idea by resource group one and
i can have
many other resource groups but i cannot
put a resource group inside a resource
group it is a flat
set of resource groups within my
subscription
additionally i can mostly move resources
between resource groups
now
what am i doing with my resource groups
firstly i'm going to create resources
inside there
i talked about the example of a virtual
machine so i might have
my virtual machine gets created
that virtual machine has
a network interface
that virtual machine also has a disk
maybe multiple disks might have data
disks as well
i also have public ip resources so i
have a whole bunch of various resources
that maybe have certain relationships
but a resource group is not a boundary
of usage what i mean by that is when
another resource group maybe i have a
virtual network
so over here i have a v-net defined
this network interface card could
absolutely
connect
to a virtual network
in a different resource group
resource groups are there for a
particular reason
so what are those reasons well the first
one is for organizational for life cycle
management if i think about a service
many services
even this thing is basic as a vm
there are multiple resources as part of
that there's the vm the disk the network
interface maybe a public ip network
security group
if it was a bigger service maybe there's
an app service a database a load
balancer
those things operate together they're
going to get created together they're
going to run together and ultimately
they're going to get decommissioned
together they'll get deleted together
so i think about hey things in a common
resource group
well they share
a life cycle
that's a good reason
to create a resource group i have a new
service it has multiple components they
have a shared life cycle
i'll put them in their own resource
group
additionally at resource groups i can
define role-based access control
so a role is a series of actions that
can be performed and i grant that role
to a certain security principle like a
user or a group
at a certain scope
well the scope could be a resource group
so i could set permissions to give a
certain user or group
maybe owner or contributor right to a
resource group that will get inherited
to all of the resources within that
resource group
and that's probably going to be
something we're commonly going to want
to do if i have multiple resources that
really are part of the same service i
really want a consistent set of
permissions across them
so applying role-based access control is
a key purpose of using a resource group
additionally i can apply policy
at a resource group a policy could be
something like hey you can only create
resources in these regions
you can only create this type of
resource you must have this logging
enabled there's hundreds of different
things i can do with policy they're like
guard rails the things that i have to
adhere to
but i can apply that
at my resource group
i can also apply a budget
so i could apply a certain spend limit
to the things created in that resource
group
so these are all great reasons i might
create different resource groups hey i
want different sets of permissions i
want different policies i might have
different budgets
i have a completely different service
which has its own separate life cycle
and that resource group does have its
own set of metadata so a big part of
that metadata is tagging
so i have tags in that resource group if
we go and look at my resource group for
a second we can see we have this idea of
all those things i just talked about
we have the idea of yes
we have access control so i can assign
roles at the resource group that will
then get inherited to all of the
resources inside
we also have the idea
of budgets so i can see here
i can apply a budget
and we also have the idea
of policy
so all of these things i can apply that
resource group level and again they get
inherited by all of the resources in
that resource group
but i also have this idea of tags
so tagging are just key value pairs
for example i might have cost center
and i could market okay this is sav dev
i could have maybe owner so you can see
these are values that i've used in the
past but i can do anything i could
create a new one
owner and give it a value and i'll put
in my name
so it's metadata that i can put on that
and i'll hit apply
now these do not get inherited so this
is different from permissions or
anything else
when i set a tag on the resource group
it's set on the resource group but all
of the resources inside will not have
that tag added to them there are ways to
achieve that funnily enough using policy
i can use a policy to say hey if you're
missing this particular tag
copy it from your parent resource group
but by default without using policy
tags are not inherited to the resources
within it
so with all of that said
how you use resource groups are going to
vary on your organization
it's what makes the most sense for you
but definitely if you think about i have
a certain set of services that run
together a certain set of resources that
have a common life cycle they're
probably going to be in its own resource
group
there may be times i do separate out
certain types of service for example
networking or databases i may have a
dedicated network team or a dedicated
database team
well in that case i may put all of my
v-nets in a certain resource group or my
databases in a certain resource group
because then
that inherited role-based access control
i could give the network team or the dba
team
rights on the resource group who would
then get rights to all of the databases
or all of the virtual networks in that
particular resource group
so ultimately i use them what makes the
most sense for my organization but given
their capabilities around budget and
role-based access control and policy
given that hey i can tag these things
typically hey we're going to create them
for any particular services to contain
all of the resources that get
provisioned together run together
and de-provisioned together